# KamelAdjei.github.io
Assignment for DAT405. Interactive design of a leaf whirlwind.

Instructions to interact with the Sketch file: ENSURE CAPS LOCK IS NOT ENABLED 
1.Press "a" or "s" = Change color to brown or yellow.
2.Press "d","f","g" = To switch between Ellipse,Rectangle and a Quadrilateral.
3.Left-Click = Change the background to white. 
4.Move mouse on the x-axis= Change the transparency value for the ellipse.
5.Move the mouse to change the colors of the background shapes

This project titled “Leaf Whirlwind” was inspired by Casey Reas, Daniel Shiffman and John Maeda. Their work aided in the process of idea development for the appearance of the project. The aim was for the final work to possess many codes which would allow the user to interact with the work.To make this happen,a conditional statement was initialized with the “mousepressed” function causing the background to turn white when the mouse was left-clicked and then return back to its original state when the mouse was released. The background for both statements had an increment of 20% of its transparency value. The plan was to integrate some elements from previous exercises. Hence, a sketch titled “geometric universe” was used as reference and manipulated to work as the background.Three shapes,that is the ellipse,rectangle and a quadrilateral were formed with code and they would switch shapes when d,f or g were pressed,thus creating a simple but complex background. The strokes were made to possess similar qualities to the shapes that would overlay the background. Next, for the shapes that would overlay the background,the idea was not to use common shapes and create a new shape from scratch using the variable “curve” and “lines”. Based on the plan, a leaf was the best fit for the project.Then I decided to use “push” and “pop” to initiate a rotation. This formed a circular motion which brought about the idea of a spiral,Similar to how a pile of leaves would move when wind suddenly blew. This is the reason why I gave it the title “Leaf Whirlwind”. To achieve the Spiral effect, I increased the scale of “Leaf 1” which created a trail since the background possessed a transparency value.I then copied the code and duplicated it eight times, with all of the leaves smaller than the former . I made green and brown the color of the leaves to symbolize the season, Autumn. Since leaves wither and are blown sometimes forming a whirlwind. Furthermore,I coded the leaves to change color when a specific key was pressed turning some leaves yellow and some light-brown. Also,I made two ellipses ,with one larger than the other and made the larger ellipse disappear and reappear based on the movement of the mouse on the x-axis.The two ellipses are different but possess similar colors which would work with the rest of the surrounding objects. I then used an image for the background which was coded on css to make it more aesthetic and placed instructions on how to interact with the work on the side using html. The final result was a pleasant looking on an html and css page.
